---
title: "Relationship between circum-Arctic atmospheric wave patterns and large-scale wildfires in boreal summer"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/04.Yasunari_et_al_2021
excerpt: 'Teppei J Yasunari, Hisashi Nakamura, Kyu-Myong Kim, **Nakbin Choi**, Myong-In Lee, Yoshihiro Tachibana and Arlindo M da Silva'
date: 2021-05-17
venue: 'Environmental Research Letters, 16(6), 064009'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/abf7ef'
#bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---
**Abstract**

Long-term assessment of severe wildfires and associated air pollution and related climate patterns in and around the Arctic is essential for assessing healthy human life status. To examine the relationships, we analyzed the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) modern-era retrospective analysis for research and applications, version 2 (MERRA-2). Our investigation based on this state-of-the-art atmospheric reanalysis data reveals that 13 out of the 20 months with the highest PM2.5 (corresponding to the highly elevated organic carbon in the particulate organic matter [POM] form) monthly mean mass concentration over the Arctic for 2003–2017 were all in summer (July and August), during which POM of 0.5 μg m−3 and PM2.5 were positively correlated. This correlation suggests that high PM2.5 in the Arctic is linked to large wildfire contributions and characterized by significant anticyclonic anomalies (i.e. clockwise atmospheric circulation) with anomalous surface warmth and drier conditions over Siberia and subpolar North America, in addition to Europe. A similar climate pattern was also identified through an independent regression analysis for the July and August mean data between the same atmospheric variables and the sign-reversed Scandinavian pattern index. We named this pattern of recent atmospheric circulation anomalies the circum-Arctic wave (CAW) pattern as a manifestation of eastward group-velocity propagation of stationary Rossby waves (i.e. large-scale atmospheric waves). The CAW induces concomitant development of warm anticyclonic anomalies over Europe, Siberia, Alaska, and Canada, as observed in late June 2019. Surprisingly, the extended regression analysis of the 1980–2017 period revealed that the CAW pattern was not prominent before 2003. Understanding the CAW pattern under future climate change and global warming would lead to better prediction of co-occurrences of European heatwaves and large-scale wildfires with air pollution over Siberia, Alaska, and Canada in and around the Arctic in summer.
