---
title: "Comparison of Opposite Behavior of Korean Heatwave with Extreme Hot Sea Surface Temperatures in August 2016 and 2022"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-09-11-choi
excerpt: 'Nakbin Choi and Seonju Lee'
date: 2023-09-11
venue: 'International Journal of Climatology, 43(15), 6993-7002'
paperurl: 'https://rmets.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/joc.8247'
citation: 'Choi, N., & Lee, M. I. (2019). Spatial variability and long-term trend in the occurrence frequency of heatwave and tropical night in Korea. Asia-Pacific Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 55, 101-114.'
---

**Abstract**

In South Korea, an unprecedented heatwave occurred in August 2016. That year, sea surface temperature (SST) in the Korean marginal seas (KMS) was remarkably higher than that in climatology, and upper-level anticyclonic circulations favoured this heatwave. More recently, similar conditions that can expect the frequent occurrence of heatwaves prevailed in August 2022. However, the opposite extreme phenomenon, heatwave days below climatology, occurred with the emergence of a stationary rainband in South Korea. This study aims to understand the two different behaviours of heatwaves in Korea under the same hot SST conditions in the KMS. The most pronounced difference between these two extreme cases is the existence of moisture flux related to the western North Pacific summer monsoon (WNPSM). Although the WNPSM is not generally highly correlated with temperature and precipitation in Korea, their relationship is particularly strong when hot SST conditions develop in the KMS. This SST condition, combined with the WNPSM, plays a role in determining this anomalous moisture flux in Korea. Enough tropical moisture flux occurred to build a stationary front with declining heatwave days during August 2022. In contrast, extremely dry and hot weather was more likely in 2016 due to inactive moisture fluxes from the western North Pacific.
